chore(meta): revamp of the issue guidelines content (#23479)
mdn/content: files/en-us/mdn/community/issues/index.md

{{MDNSidebar}}

As a contributor, you can [report](#Guidelines_for_reporting_an_issue) and [work](#guidelines_for_working_on_an_issue) on issues.

After you report an issue, the issue gets triaged. Issue [triaging](#guidelines_for_triaging_issues) is typically done by people assigned the role of a maintainer or an owner. In addition to working on issues, this page outlines the process of issue triage.

## General guidelines for participation

While reporting an issue or participating in a conversation in an issue, always ensure that your inputs are contributing to the overall progress of the project. Consider whether the issues you open and your comments in an issue are constructive and on topic and are not just adding noise.

Do the following:

> - Before filing an issue, consider if you need to start a [discussion](https://github.com/mdn/mdn-community/discussions) in the MDN Web Docs project on GitHub. Use discussions to gain different viewpoints and to converge on an agreed upon course of action. This helps to keep issues focused and productive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Before filing an issue, consider if you need to start a [discussion](https://github.com/mdn/mdn-community/discussions) in the MDN Web Docs project on GitHub. Use discussions to gain different viewpoints and to converge on an agreed-upon course of action. This helps to keep issues focused and productive.
```

- After filing an issue, try to fix the problem yourself. Read our [contribution guide](https://github.com/mdn/content/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) to learn more.
- If you have a question, you can ask using mechanisms like [chat rooms](https://chat.mozilla.org/#/room/#mdn:mozilla.org) or [forums](https://discourse.mozilla.org/c/mdn/236) without filing an issue.

Avoid doing the following:

- Complicating issues by trying to discuss multiple topics or by making off-topic comments.
- Opening lots of issues asking vague questions.
- Asking questions without trying to solve the problem yourself first.

## Guidelines for reporting an issue

[Issues](https://docs.github.com/en/github/managing-your-work-on-github/about-issues) are used to track bugs. An issue must be a single actionable task or a collection of related actionable tasks and must have a clear outcome.

### Before filing an issue

If you think you've found a bug with the content on MDN Web Docs or with the look and feel of the website, search the current open issues in the [relevant repository](/en-US/docs/MDN/Community/Contributing/Our_repositories) and make sure nobody else has reported the issue.

### Reporting an issue

> - Depending on the problem you've discovered, report it by filing a [documentation issue](https://github.com/mdn/content/issues), a [translation issue](https://github.com/mdn/translated-content/issues), or a [website look and feel issue](https://github.com/mdn/yari/issues).

Author: Makes sense. Done in https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/23479/commits/ebf65748ae260d655d17f2bc37d6cd658895b224.

Remember that if you take on an issue, the expectation is for the work to be completed in a timely manner. If you're not able to make any progress for a week after being assigned or can no longer complete the required task, leave a comment and unassign yourself from the issue.

These are the general steps for working on an issue:

1. **Find an issue:** If you're looking to contribute, search for issues with [`good first issue`, `help wanted`](#Set_other_labels) or [`p3`](#Set_a_priority_label) label. Most repositories have issues with these labels. You are welcome to browse and pick an issue that is suitable for your skill set. Another useful place to look for issues to work on is the [MDN Contributors Task Board](https://github.com/orgs/mdn/projects/25). This project view lists open issues from multiple repositories. You can filter the list based on the topics (`Labels` column) you're interested in. See the description of some of the [labels](#Set_other_labels) that get applied during the issue triage process.

   > **Note:** An issue with the `needs triage` label indicates that the MDN Web Docs core team has not reviewed the issue yet, and you shouldn't begin work on it.

> 2. **Assign the issue to yourself:** After finding an issue you'd like to work on, make sure that the issue is not assigned to anybody else. Add a comment saying you would like to work on the issue, and if you are able to, [assign the issue to yourself](https://docs.github.com/en/issues/tracking-your-work-with-issues/assigning-issues-and-pull-requests-to-other-github-users#assigning-an-individual-issue-or-pull-request).

Author: I believe that is what this text is saying - only recommending to add a comment on the issue in addition to assigning the issue to oneself. This helps in "claiming" the issue part and letting other interested folks know the issue is being worked on by someone.

  - If a pull request has been opened to fix the issue but has not been reviewed for a week, give the reviewer a gentle ping to ask if they can get to it.
  - If a pull request to fix the issue is waiting on review comments to be addressed after a week, then ask the author if they can respond to their review. If another week goes by, either fix the review comments yourself if you have time, or close the pull request and unassign the related issue.

### Issue-specific triaging tasks

These are the guidelines to follow while triaging each issue.

#### Review if the issue is valid

These are some of the things to keep in mind while reviewing the validity of an issue:

- Check if the issue raised is valid and if the fix will improve the content for the readers and the website.
- Evaluate if the impact of the fix will be small or site-wide.
- Evaluate if the fix for the issue will need a discussion first, in which case, point the author to open a [discussion](https://github.com/mdn/mdn-community/discussions) instead.

> - Check if the issue is inline with our [writing guidelines](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Writing_style_guide) and [templates](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Page_structures/Page_types).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Check if the issue is in line with our [writing guidelines](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Writing_style_guide) and [templates](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Page_structures/Page_types).
```

- Check whether suggestions for adding links comply with our [external links policy](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Writing_style_guide#external_links).

#### Review the issue for completeness of information

Review each issue against the following checklist to ensure that the issue contains the described information for someone to start working on the bug:

- URL of the MDN Web Docs page with the problem or URL of an example MDN Web Docs page if the problem exists on multiple pages.
- The specific heading or section on the MDN Web Docs page where the problem was found.
- A clear description of the incorrect, unhelpful, incomplete, or missing information.

> If any of the above information is not present, then you should ask the author of the issue to provide these details and resume triaging the issue only after those details have been provided. It is okay to wait for up to a week to get a response from the author.

Reviewer: Mention "needs info" label

For example, as a triager, you can add the following information to the issue you are triaging:

```plain
To whoever fixes this issue, it looks like the following is needed:

* Update the first paragraph below heading X to correct the problem with Y
* Add a description of X
* Update the compatibility data at Link-X
```

#### Set other labels

Next, set the following labels as appropriate:

- `effort: small`, `effort: medium`, `effort: large`: Some contributors like to search for bugs based on the time and effort that will be needed to fix the bug. So where possible, you should try to provide an estimate of the required effort.
- `good first issue`: Set this label on the issue if the fix for the issue is really simple and if fixing the issue would provide good practice for a newcomer who is getting used to the process.
- `help wanted`: Set this label if the issue requires help from someone who knows about or is familiar with the topic. This is a popular label and some contributors use it to search for issues to work on in open source projects in their areas of familiarity or expertise.

> - `broken link internal`, `broken link external` — Set the appropriate label if the issue involves a link to a non-existent internal page or a broken external link.

Reviewer: "non-existent internal page" generally uses the "document not written" label
